Update about-our-data.md (#154)
stjudecloud/docs: docs/guides/genomics-platform/requesting-data/about-our-data.md

The validation_status field indicates the status of validating the presence and origin (somatic/germline) of the variant using an orthogonal methodology. Note that this doesn't imply anything regarding variant significance, pathogenicity, or relation to disease. Typically, validation is performed either by secondary sequencing using a custom capture panel designed around the called variants (common in research studies) or by cross-validation using simultaneous sequencing by WGS, WES, and/or RNA-Seq (used in clinical genomics).
 

> Validation by a secondary sequencing method has commonly been used in retrospective research studies such as PCGP. Here, "valid" indicates the variant was validated by the secondary method, "putative" indicates that the secondary method could neither confirm nor invalidate the variant (e.g. due to lack of read coverage by the secondary method), and "invalid" indicates a negative result from the secondary method.

Reviewer: I think the generic "method" is more applicable here. You can validate by a supplemental sequencing method, but you could also validate by a laboratory test.  Further, I think we want to avoid being detailed in this paragraph as it describes the general concept of validating a variant. In the following two paragraphs, we discuss specific validation methods such as cross-validation for clinical sequencing and custom capture for research projects such as PCGP. I think this is why Michael R. structured the paragraphs this way.

Author: Yes, I was under the impression that all such PCGP validation methods only comprised further sequencing at each variant site (hence my edit). Though I'm happy for it to be changed back.

> Validation by a secondary sequencing method has commonly been used in retrospective research studies such as PCGP. Here, "valid" indicates the variant was validated by the secondary method, "putative" indicates that the secondary method could neither confirm nor invalidate the variant (e.g. due to lack of read coverage by the secondary method), and "invalid" indicates a negative result from the secondary method.

Reviewer 2: I agree with @adthrasher here (although I initially didn't like "method" either). But I like the other additions. How about just removing the word "sequencing"?
```suggestion
Validation by a secondary method has commonly been used in retrospective research studies such as PCGP. Here, "valid" indicates the variant was validated by the secondary method, "putative" indicates that the secondary method could neither confirm nor invalidate the variant (e.g. due to lack of read coverage by the secondary method), and "invalid" indicates a negative result from the secondary method.
```

Reviewer: I don't think we want to reference PCGP either. All of our studies use a secondary method for validation. I think the way this is worded, the paragraph reads like it is mostly related to PCGP, when it should be a general description of validation methodology.  Additionally, our clinical studies use a secondary method for validation, so this isn't exclusive to research studies.

> Validation by a secondary sequencing method has commonly been used in retrospective research studies such as PCGP. Here, "valid" indicates the variant was validated by the secondary method, "putative" indicates that the secondary method could neither confirm nor invalidate the variant (e.g. due to lack of read coverage by the secondary method), and "invalid" indicates a negative result from the secondary method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For validation by a secondary method, "valid" indicates the variant was validated by the secondary method, "putative" indicates that the secondary method could neither confirm nor invalidate the variant (e.g. due to lack of read coverage by the secondary method), and "invalid" indicates a negative result from the secondary method.
```

> Cross-validation of variant data across multiple sequencing methodologies (WGS, WES, RNA-Seq etc) has been used across clinical genomics studies (Clinical Pilot, G4K, and RTCG). Here SNVs and indels are first manually reviewed and called as "Good" or "Bad" for each sequencing methodology. To make this assessment, the analyst considers 1) computationally generated quality metrics and tags assigned to the variant based on read counts, base qualities, and realignment; and 2) manual inspection of tumor and germline read evidence within sequencing data from the given sequencing platform. The assigned validation status here is determined based on the observed support for the variant across each of the sequencing methodologies as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cross-validation of variant data across multiple sequencing methodologies (WGS, WES, RNA-Seq etc) has been used across clinical genomics studies (Clinical Pilot, G4K, and RTCG). Here SNVs and indels are first manually reviewed and called as "Good" or "Bad" for each sequencing methodology. To make this assessment, the analyst considers 1) computationally generated quality metrics and tags assigned to the variant based on read counts, base qualities, and realignment; and 2) manual inspection of tumor and germline read evidence within sequencing data from the given sequencing platform. The assigned validation status is determined based on the observed support for the variant across each of the sequencing methodologies as follows:
```
